In the previous lecture we set up the form and prepped the javascript code.
Now we'll begin processing the data inside the main plugin file.
I'm going to use the WP Ajax no print hook.
This is important.
Users who are not logged in should be the only ones to be able to create accounts.
The function will use the same name as the dynamic cook inside the process folder create a file named
create dash account dot P. HP and define the function here.
Make sure to include it from the main plugin file as well.
Inside this function I'm going to create the output array with a status key and its value being 1 immediately
afterwards.
I'm going to grab the underscore WP nonce field and store it in a variable called knots.
I'm going to check if it's available by using AP HP ternary operator.
If it's set I'll set this variable to the field.
Otherwise I'll just set it to an empty string
next inside a conditional statement.
I'm going to use a function called WP verify knots this function will take in the nonce.
We were given and then the name of the action.
If we go back to the shortcut function you'll see we named it recipe off pass that in as a string to
the function if the function returns false then it will want to kill the script with the output like
we always do.
I'm going to create an additional conditional statement to check if the rest of the post variables were
set.
If any of them warrant then I'll just kill the scripts after performing these simple checks.
Let's create variables for each of these post values.
I'm going to sanitize each value with these sanitized text field function.
The email will be sanitized with these sanitize email function.
It works like the sanitized text field function except for emails with the data being set.
I'm going to use another conditional statement and perform quite a few checks.
I'll be using the user name exists and email exists functions to check if the user name or email is
already in use.
These functions are provided by Wordpress and will make the necessary sequel queries to check if these
two values are taken while I'm performing these checks.
I'll check if the two passwords match and I'll check if the email being submitted is a valid email using
the is email function the is email is another WordPress function that helps with verifying and email
and its format.
Be sure to check this conditional statement twice.
Make sure your code matches mine.
Pause the video if you need to.
If any of these checks pass I'm going to kill the script again.
If a user has made it this far then we'll begin creating the user.
There are two functions available for doing this.
The WP create user and WP insert user functions both do the exact same thing the WP create user as a
wrapper and a more simplified version of the WP insert user function.
This may seem appealing but it won't do for our purposes.
I want to set more values than this function will allow.
So we'll be using the WP insert user function instead in the resource section of this lecture I provide
a link to this function.
As you can see this function accepts an array of fields we can set we won't be sending all of these.
Only the ones the user has submitted.
Let's use this function now.
This function will return an I.D..
If successful I want to save this I.D. for future use so create a variable named user I.D. and assign
its value to this function pass an array and set the following fields.
User log in and we'll be set to the user name user pass.
We'll be set to pass we're passing this in as plain text but you don't have to worry about it being
saved as is.
WordPress will take the time to salt and hash this password for you before inserting it into the database.
User email will be sent to the email
user nice name we'll be set to the name the nice name is used to display a friendly your name to users
rather than displaying the user name.
That's all you need to do to create a user.
If we look at the documentation you'll see a list of possible return values.
Here is what WordPress says about the possible returns.
If successful returns the newly created users user underscore I.D..
If query fails returns a WP underscore error object.
So if this fails we can definitely expect a WP air object.
I'm going to create a conditional statement and use the is WP era function to help us identify if the
value returned is an error object
if this returns true that I want to kill the script and let the user know the registration was a failure
at this point.
The user is completely registered something WordPress does is send an email to the admin and user about
their registration.
Let's also mimic this behavior for the user only WordPress provides a function called WP new user registration
this function will send an email to the user with their credential info.
The first parameter is the user I.D. the second parameter is deprecated so you'll have to pass and know
the last parameter allows you to specify who should be sent an email.
There are three possible values for this.
You can set this to admin for the admin to get an email.
There's also user if you want only the user to get the email.
Lastly you can set this to both for both admin and user to get the emails.
I'm going to set this to users since I want the user to get the email.
Now that the user has been created we only have a few more things to do.
This next step is completely optional but I like to automatically log in the user after creating their
account to Long of the user in.
We need to grab the user object.
I'm going to create a new variable named user and assign its value for the value returned by the function.
Get user by this function will return a user object.
It allows you to grab a user with numerous fields and values.
Since we have the user righty we'll just use that the first parameter will be the string I.D. to specify
that we want to grab the user by their I.D..
The second parameter will be the idea itself.
This should return the user and all their properties to log in a user.
There are a couple of things we need to do.
First we need to let WordPress know about the current user.
This will not authenticate the user but simply tell WordPress that a user is now active within the system.
Call the WP set current user function and pass him the user I.D. along with the user log in
next.
I want to set up a cookie so that WordPress will remember this user for future use.
Call the function WP set off cookie and passing the user I.D. this function has a second parameter which
will remember the user even if they exit out of their browser by default.
This is false which is what we want.
The reason I want this is because the user may be registering on an insecure location.
This cookie will only be active until the user exits out their browser.
Next I want to set off a hook using the do action function.
The hook I want to run is called WP log in and I'm going to pass in two extra arguments.
I'm going to pass him the user log in and the user object this hook will allow WordPress itself to run
any authentication settings and will allow for any other plugins to perform any setups.
When a user is logged in after doing all of this the user is now logged in before I move on.
I want to inform you about a function called WP sign on that does all this for us but the reason we
didn't use it is because it brings back mixed results.
Upon first logging when a user logs in for the first time there is additional setup that WordPress and
additional plugins want to perform by doing it this way.
We make it easier to let those plugins do so.
What I just showed you is a more definite way to log in a user for the first time to end this function.
I'm going to update the output status key to 2 then I will kill the script
this will let the script know the user has successfully created an account.
We're almost done with the registration since the user is logged in after registering then we should
redirect them to the home page so that they don't have to stare at this page inside the front slash
NQ function.
I'm going to create another local variable named home your URL and set its value returned by the function.
Home you are.
Passing a symbol forward slash to let this function know you want the U.R.L. to the root page itself.
We can now use this variable inside our script right after the status message set the H for property
of the location object to the new localized property like so
you can now test this form.
Make sure you are logged out.
Or this form will not work.
Try testing this form with invalid info.
Then try testing it with valid info.
You should see a success message for a brief moment and then be redirected to the home page.
You should also notice that you are now logged back in by WordPress.
This is exactly what we wanted.
I'm going to log out again and navigate back to this page in the next lecture.
We'll work on making the logon form work.
It's very similar to what we did with the registration form.